---
title: "Anime review: *Keep your hands off Eizouken!*"
date: 2022-07-12
tags: ["anime", "review", "nerd shit"]
---

Honestly, I don't think any other show will come close to *Keep your hands
off Eizouken!*, and not to their own detriment. *Eizouken* is a show
unlike any other that I've seen---it's bold, imaginative, and incredibly 
well animated, all while keeping a story with relatively few stakes, and
only three main characters.

The show's plot is somewhat self-explanatory---three high school girls
make a club to produce anime, hijinks ensue. In many ways, the plot is
low-stakes---characters are never in any serious danger;[^danger] and
the only violence in the show is both for comedic effect, and never
ends up hurting anyone. (If you're a parent with a kid in elementary
school, and you're cool with some mild language, this show would be perfect
for your kid.)

To be honest, *Eizouken* is two shows in one, first, it is an anime, and
second, it is an explanation of the anime industry. Each of the three main 
characters do fulfill a main roll in the industry: concept art/direction, 
animation, and business management.[^audio] The show constantly manages to
weave in ways to explain how anime is made; *Eizouken* manages to be 
educational without ever *feeling* that way, which is no mean feat at all.

Indeed, *Eizouken* is fantastically playful, and *never* dry. Peppered in 
are sections of  characters coming up with new ideas and machines to put
into their show, lovingly animated, and placed into the world as though 
they were real. Play itself is emphasized in the show quite
heavily---despite being in high school, all of the characters never really 
let go of the hobbies that inspired them. I find that to be a pretty major
theme in the show: Characters are mature, and capable of knowing what, and
*why* they love what to do, but still manage to keep the awe and wonder
that inspired them in the first place.

*Eizouken's* animation is fantastic---dare I say it is damn near perfect.
Oftentimes, *Eizouken* actually has a much higher framerate than expected
from most anime, all while still mostly using---presumably---hand-drawn art
and animation. (Of course, Science Saru worked on this show---so of course
animation would be top-notch.) My personal highlights are the sections
where the main three---and any other characters with them---brainstorm
machines and ideas to put into whatever anime they're working on. Almost
every single physical detail was painstakingly taken into account.

Exceeding the animation is just the *world* the characters live in. Most
buildings in the show are massive, sprawling complexes; there is a definite
*urbanism* to *Eizouken*---every area is pedestrian friendly, public
transit is everywhere, and dense, mixed-use housing is everywhere. That
said, within the world, nature is still everywhere; the urban and
"natural" world are not portrayed as in constant struggle between
one-another, but as, in a sense, symbiotic.

Moreover, despite a few quirks added in for comedy's sake---like an
ultra-strict school council, riot cops in a school, and organized
"crime" between school clubs---*Eizouken* shows a world that, despite not
being a utopia, is far from a dystopia. Characters are diverse, and little
hints throughout the world show how, for instance, there are multiple
languages used within the school; that people are actively trying to make
the world easier for disabled people (see 08:10 in episode 8); and that
Japan has become, for the most part, racially integrated.[^race] Even if
*Eizouken*'s world is not a utopia, it is *far* from dystopia, and in many
ways presents a future that would be far preferable to today.

All in all, if I had to describe *Eizouken* in one word, it would be
*unique*. Very few shows manage to do almost everything right, and by god
*Eizouken* is one of them. If you have about half an hour of free time,
put an episode on---and then free up four more hours to watch the rest.

---

> **Plot:** 8/10
>
> **Animation:** 10/10
>
> **World:** 10/10
>
> **Pacing:** 7/10
>
> **Dialogue:** 8/10
>
> ---
>
> **Overall rating:---**9/10

[^danger]: They were once, but it was quickly ended by a few characters
bringing [a rope][rope] to traverse pits.

[^audio]: A later character handles sound design.

[^race]: One *huge* improvement *Eizouken* made over made over an
unfortunate amount of other anime is how its Black characters *aren't* 
drawn as racist caricatures.

[rope]: https://youtu.be/h_ld5ij1aH0
