---
title: In the begining
date: 2022-04-15
---

Yeah---that's a *real* imaginative title. No one else has *ever* ripped of
the Bible.

## Behold!
Anyways, this is my new blog. I'm pretty sure absolutely no one in their
right mind would want to read it, but I like writing, and I figured it'd be
nice to put it all in one place.

Many people, as far as I know, like to keep blogs for employability's
sake---write about something in programming or whatnot---but for me, I just
need a place to do some long-form writing. Social media sucks---I certainly
wouldn't want to use a site like Facebook for writing---so a Hugo blog it
is.

## Hugo isn't very good
Not saying I could do better, but Hugo isn't very good---or, at the very
least, there aren't many good themes for it; most static site generators
aren't very good.

Do you know how hard I hunted to find a new static site generator? I spent
a whole *hour* trying to find one, and ended up with Hugo. It was either
Hugo, dealing with javascript,[^js] or using something ancient. 

Perhaps I simply do not understand how static site generators work, but I
find working on Hugo stuff to be mind-boggling. *So many* themes tend to
feel overcomplicated and almost impossible to edit well---even the
erroneously named "shortcodes" people implement tend to be much longer,
and much more easy to forget, than Markdown syntax.

That said, it's still faster than the alternatives, and I don't need to use
javascript---that's a plus, and likely the only reason I'm using Hugo.

All that said, I can't complain much; Hugo is much more customizable than
something like Squarespace or something like that, my site is hosted 
for free on Github---and, best of all, it's *not* WordPress.

[^js]: You may also know javascript as *the worst* programming language 
known to humankind.

