---
title: Why are computers like this?
subtitle: aaaaaaAAAAAAA
date: 2023-03-25
author: Ian Mitchell
---

{{< youtube wRmmlqqejGI >}}

Look, I'm very glad to have a computer---I use mine all the time, and I do
quite a bit of good stuff on them. I like, for the most part, programming, and
I like how easy breezy it is to work on a lot of things---physics calculations
are particularly easy with a few decent packages.

The problem, of course, is that computers rarely work well for longer than a few
years at a time---in this case, though, it's all my fault. You see, I got really
bored of my last setup---I had been using the same neovim config for a while,
and I had been using urxvt since about 2018---I thought it would be best to
change things up a bit. Right now I'm working on configuring neovim with lua,
and getting alacritty's YAML config file *just* right---maybe I'll start using
the fish shell in a few years. I could just switch over to MacOS and use
Microsoft Word as a text editor, even---the possibilities are absolutely
endless.

I didn't really make this decision with a lot of deliberation---I actually just
saw some videos about configuring neovim in lua and using alacritty and it
just sounded good; I want speed, ease of use, and a modern toolset---I'm
becoming particularly fond of Rust, along with the Julia language nowadays---so
I try to make as much of my toolset use those languages as possible. I know it 
might be bad form to admit to being influenced by influencers---a lot of people 
certainly don't like it---but I think it's best to just be honest.

Am I regretting my decision? Yeah, I'm regretting it quite a lot. I had a
*perfectly* good setup, and it's been ruined by my hubris. I had been using the
same pywal/wpgtk setup since at least 2019, and working on a solid neovim config
that was at least---and I mean *at least*---two years old at that point. I've
thrown it all away so I can play with some new toys.

I can't say that there hasn't been anything good out of this though. I'm really
enjoying alacritty for the most part---even if it's not *the* fastest terminal
emulator in the world, it does basically everything I want it to without any
bullshit; working in lua has allowed me to take a more modular approach to my
neovim config, which lets me play around with parts *way* easier than I would
have previously. I can't say it's been *all* bad.

If I ever buy a bunch of programming stickers and put them on my laptop, you
have every right to kick my ass.
