---
title: A review of the HP Dev One
subtitle: after (almost) two years of daily use
date: 2024-07-18
tags: ["devices", "reviews"]
draft: true
---

Back around 2022 I was in the market for a new laptop, and I was fixing for
something a bit higher-end than what I previously owned, a ThinkPad X220. I
loved my X220 to pieces, and the idea of switching felt horrible to me, but I
write a fair amount of demanding code---mostly codes like `QuTiP` or the
Julia SciML ecosystem---that runs horribly on the decade-old beast. As much as
I want to resist the tide of ever-growing software complexity, I need something
that can run my code without chugging like an old steam engine.

Enter the HP Dev One, the new hotness of Linux laptops back around 2022. With a
considerable amount of hype from outlets like Linus Tech Tips, the Dev One 
promised to be a true Developer's PC---heralded as a ThinkPad killer by
some YouTube thumbnails---which meant that it ran Linux straight out of the box
without hardware compatibility issues.


# Performance and battery life
Let me just say that this computer runs really well right out of the box.
Nothing I do is too horribly demanding, but the Dev One can easily handle
multiple hefty applications while I run some demanding code---I don't have any 
real benchmarks to back this statement up, so you'll just have to take my word 
for it. but the computer is generally quite fast, and I like it---it 
outperforms the MacBook and the ThinkPad. I'm also
likely missing out on a lot of different optimizations that HP made in PopOS
specifically for the Dev One, because the first thing I did when I got the
computer was install EndeavourOS. (I'll learn Nix one of these days.)

Battery life is solid, though nothing to write home about---you'll get a good
few hours out of the battery, and I've gotten about 4--8 hours of battery life
out of moderate use.

Perhaps my biggest gripe with this computer's performance is its poor thermal
efficiency, which is managed by a single pitter-pattering fan which gets its
fresh air from the bottom of the computer; using the Dev One on anything other
than a hard desk hampers thermal performance considerably. While better than a
MacBook's thermal performance on account of having a fan, it's not perfect.


# Audio and video
There's not much to write here. The laptop has speakers, and they can get
quite loud; the laptop has a screen, and it displays things. The Dev One's
audio and video quality are good, but unremarkable, and that's fine. Unlike
my old ThinkPad, they're not absolutely dreadful, so that's a bit of a leg-up,
but they're certainly worse than that on the MacBook---but all of the audio
sounds good, and I can make music sound good without too much of a hassle.


# Connectivity
This computer comes with most standard ports: two USB 3 ports, two USB-C ports,
an HDMI port, and one of those horrible headphone jacks that doubles as a
microphone jack. Ultimately not as great as the ThinkPad, which has a shitload
of different connectors, but certainly nowhere near as awful as Apple's USB-C
plus a headphone jack approach to MacBooks.


# The keyboard
I don't know how else to say this, the Dev One's keyboard is genuinely horrible,
an experience I would never wish upon anyone else. While on the surface not as
outwardly horrible as Apple's scissor keyboards, I can assure you that the
Dev One's keyboard, in some respects, is far worse.

The keyboard switches are largely unremarkable. I don't think that they're the
worst thing ever, and I've typed on far worse---I would say that they're 
*alright*, and by all accounts far better than my school-issued MacBook.
While the actual typing feel is not bad, after a while the keys themselves have
started to sometimes get stuck in the keyboard, with the frequency increasing
with use.[^j_key] I don't know if that's a build issue or something that comes
with age---it's nothing that I've ever experienced on a laptop before, so I'm
assuming it's an HP problem.

The worst part of the keyboard, however, is the layout. I was spoiled by my
ThinkPad, let me tell you that much. Perhaps this is standard faire for modern
laptops, but I *really* hate the way that function keys are used nowadays.
Hardware manufacturers seem to assume that the general user doesn't know how to 
use function keys, and therefore obscures them with more generally useful
functions, making them change volume, screen brightness, and other things, while
keeping the function keys usable with an `Fn` modifier. Let me be the first to
declare that I utterly *hate* this design choice. Obvious cost-cutting aside,
it introduces *yet another* modifier key that users need to keep track of.
Using the `Fn` key on a Dev One is a bone-crunching endeavour, though you can
thankfully enable it by pressing `Shift + Fn`. That said, this is a premium
laptop---if Lenovo could give the laptop dedicated volume and brightness
controls, along with the ever so handy ThinkVantage button (which I'm sure we
all used every day) back in 2013, why can't HP do it now?

Of all this computer's sins, the most egregious is the power button, sandwiched
between the `Print Screen` and `Delete` keys, just above the `Backspace`
key---I can't tell you the amount of times that I've accidentally turned off
this computer, but it's been over ten. Some programs require me to use the
`Delete` key, and every time I use it I get *tense*, looking down at the
keyboard instead of just focusing on the program I'm using---it has seriously
ruined my flow, and every time it happens I shriek profanities like a middle
schooler that just learned the fuck word; the only thing more baffling than
that is by giving the `Delete` key an alternate `Quit Sibelius` function---it's
the kind of keyboard that would cause the Pope to strip of his vestments and
run through the streets of Rome proclaiming the death of god. I'm used to Linux
jank, but this is just jank that you can't avoid---this is cost-cutting to the
$n$-th degree, a clever engineering choice, but a godawful design decision, a
prime example of why the `Fn` key has done more harm to keyboards than anything
else.


[^j_key]: About a week after I wrote this, it turns out that the *j* key is just
*popping off* of my keyboard now, and it seems to be an issue with the keyboard
itself, which is just great---I'm pretty sure that other keys will be following
suit soon.


# Conclusion
The HP Dev One is a pretty good computer, but honestly nothing super special.
I don't think that the Dev One is really quite as good as people made it out
to be a few years ago---it's certainly not a ThinkPad killer---but it does its
job; I would never buy the Dev One again though, partially because it's
completely sold out and you can't buy one new, and partially because I would
rather get something else, maybe something like a Framework 13, a new ThinkPad,
or something that's built like an old ThinkPad with modern hardware.
(If you're running a company manufacturing laptops, *please* make something 
that's as thick, durable, and repairable as an X60.) Honestly, considering
the current state of the laptop market, the Dev One isn't too horrible: it's
a victim of circumstance, too caught up in market trends to do anything too
too noteworthy, while also trying to set itself apart by being *slightly* easier
to work with on Linux than the average computer.
