---
title: One of the most beautiful equations in physics
author: Ian Mitchell
date: 2024-11-05
draft: true
---

There have been many attempts to find out physics's most "beautiful" equation,
all of which are lacking a bit in my humble opinion---this is because beauty is
subjective, especially when it comes to abstract topics in mathematics or
physics. A cursory Google search would give you a few things, mostly listicles,
covering the same few equations over and over again---like Einstein's
energy--mass equivalence, the Schrödinger equation, the Dirac equation, and all
that, many of which are taken from Ian Stewart's book, *In Pursuit of the
Unknown*---but most of these articles do not really explain what those equations
actually do outside of vague gesturing and handwaving. Sure, you can say that
[Callan--Symanzik][cs_equation] is beautiful and talk about how it's useful for
quantum field theory---as this [article by Clara Moskowitz in *Live
Science*][moskowitz] does---but getting to the real heart of that mathematical
elegance is difficult for all but those skilled in quantum field theory, and
it's quite difficult to arrive at that intuitively.

Essentially, physics and poetry are analogous---it is not merely about using the
right words, but the right words in the right order.

In order to meet the status of "beautiful," it must meet a rather squishy,
two-point rubric:

1. The equation must be applicable to a wide range of phenomena, if not
   universal.

2. The equation should be concise or, if not, should do something interesting.

For my money, the greatest equation in all of physics is the second law of
thermodynamics, which can be written in two ways,
$$\oint_C \frac{\delta Q}{T} \leq 0 \,,$$
which applies for closed thermodynamic cycles, or, more generally,
$$\\! dS \geq 0 \,.$$
In a small equation, there's a lot going on here, and a fair amount of ground
to cover before you can understand it completely. Rather than talk about that
$\delta Q / T$ quantity, I would first like to direct your attention towards
integrals on a closed path.

> I will assume that you have a basic, calculus 1 understanding of integrals,
> and, if not, I would advise you to [learn more][openstax_calc] about them.

Assume that you have a set of points $R = \left\{(a_1, b_1), ... \,, (a_n, b_n)
\mid a_n, b_n \in \mathbb{R} \right\}$, we may define a *path* between two
points as a function which starts at an initial point $r_1 \in R$ and ends at a final
point $r_2 \in R$.



[cs_equation]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Callan%E2%80%93Symanzik_equation

[moskowitz]: https://www.livescience.com/57849-greatest-mathematical-equations.html

[openstax_calc]: https://openstax.org/details/books/calculus-volume-1
